[Music]
We respectfully bow to the Buddha. It
is truly miraculous that a person, from being born into a world of desires, can attain true bliss. From being a prince or nobleman,
abandoning royal robes, abandoning golden palaces and crimson towers,
abandoning servants and attendants, can be
adorned with the robe of the Buddha. It is truly miraculous. To
abandon the luxurious meals, with
hundreds of dishes laid out on the table, ready to be served to
one's
jade or golden bowl, to embrace the alms bowl and
walk through sun and rain, sometimes hungry, sometimes full,
to control greed and anger, to beg for alms. If one
encounters heretics or
evil people, they will throw all sorts of things into the alms
bowl. A practitioner, however, patiently accepts them, so as to sow the seeds of enlightenment. Living a life of self-control,
cultivating
purity of body, speech, and mind, maintaining peace and tranquility of mind.
Not giving rise to a single thought of greed towards
delicious food, not giving rise to a single thought of
evil, putting it into
one's alms bowl. Begging for alms
is the self-control of purity, the eradication of greed, anger, and
delusion.
Thus, the Buddha and the Sangha begged for
alms daily. The Buddha, for three countless eons, begged for
alms.  Having practiced self-cultivation and benefited sentient
beings,
his disciples followed in his footsteps,
abandoning mundane things
to wear
robes and carry alms
bowls. That is a
noble deed, a great deed, the work of a
great man, one who must possess a compassionate heart and great
compassion to accomplish it. We also yearn for the
opportunity to
carry alms bowls in the world,
practicing self-cultivation and noble conduct to
eradicate wrong views for ourselves and for all
sentient beings. We understand why offering even
a small amount to an alms bowl
brings immeasurable blessings.
Because we keep a portion for ourselves,
praising the noble and
supreme conduct. King Ashoka, in his previous life, was
just a young boy who offered a small amount of earth and an alms bowl, yet the
blessings were so great that he became a
king who unified small countries into one
great nation, India.
With the Buddha's guidance, King Ashoka
became a king who revived the
Dharma, protected the Three Jewels, developed and preserved
Buddhism. Just a small amount of earth put into an alms bowl
brings immeasurable blessings, and thus
King Ashoka also shared in the fruit of this practice.
Today, facing the stupa and
alms bowl, we realize how
insignificant, how immature, how unwholesome, how useless we are
to this world, how useless we are to ourselves, how incapable we can
do anything noble or exalted.
Because we cannot even control ourselves,
what benefit can we give to
anyone? We yearn, we yearn to carry the alms bowl
through the world to attain
enlightenment for ourselves and for all beings. We have longed for
this from countless lifetimes,
in our base cravings, craving
delicious food.
Now we yearn, we yearn to
eat the
food offered by all social classes, to eat the
insults of the
world, to eat the contempt of
all when we go begging for
alms. That is truly knowing how to eat, truly the
supreme way of life.
Today, before the
noble compassion of the Buddha, we
know that the Buddha does
nothing but create conditions that benefit all beings. The
Buddha knows that the alms bowl
placed
here will be used by the people of this place.
This stupa and alms bowl will be built and...
Many people will come here to
circle the alms bowl,
contemplating the Buddha's grace and receiving
blessings, thereby later entering the stream of
liberation. We, here today, facing the
Buddha, only understand this much; there are
many things the Buddha left behind that we
may not fully understand. But
today, from the Buddha's great compassion,
we contemplate his alms bowl here.
Let us offer with a pure heart to
receive immeasurable blessings. That
is the Buddha's message that
we understand. Now,
here, we also ask that each of us learn to follow the path of offering food
to
this alms bowl, praying that we may
attain the
supreme enlightenment and fulfill our noble aspirations. We humbly
request the Buddha, that he
consider this time as opportune.
We, as beings full of
reverence for the Buddha, offer the
coarsest and worst food to his alms bowl,
but in our hearts, this is the
most precious food, perhaps the most precious food in countless eons, the food
that brings
us the greatest purity, nobility,
and benefit.
We humbly beseech the Buddha to accept
our offerings. For countless eons, the
Buddha, on his path to attaining perfect enlightenment and for the
benefit and happiness of all beings, has
transformed all the coarse and ugly things that were placed in his alms bowl into something beautiful for those who
offered them.
Even those who were evil and harmful to the world,
with extremely unwholesome intentions, who placed
coarse and ugly things in the Buddha's alms bowl,
received immeasurable blessings and
later attained peace and
liberation. This is the miraculous, noble, wondrous, and supreme benefit that the
Buddha and the Sangha's alms-gathering practice brings to the world and to all beings.
We wish to have the auspicious conditions to wear the robe and
carry the alms bowl freely in this world, to control our desires with purity, to eradicate wrong views, ego, ignorance, and delusion, and to treat all
sentient beings with compassion and equality.
We humbly ask the Buddha to bear witness and grant
us the fulfillment of our wishes, surpassing all
our desires. We respectfully present this to the
Buddha.
[Music]